Extensibility docs (#1399)
kyma-project/busola: docs/extensibility/display-widgets.md

# Display widgets Widgets available for lists and details pages.

## Inline Widgets

Inline widgets are for simple values and are usable in lists, details headers and details body.

### Text

Text widgets render the value as simple text. This is the default behaviour for all scalar values.

#### Example

```json
{
  "path": "spec.label",
  "widget": "Text"
}
```

### Badge

Badge widget renders the text as a status badge, using a set of predefined rules to assign colours.

Values that are automatically handled are:

- rendered as an information: initial, pending, available, released
- rendered as a success: ready, bound, running, success, succeeded, ok
- rendered as a warning: unknown, warning
- rendered as an error: error, failure, invalid

#### Example

```json
{
  "path": "status.value",
  "widget": "Badge"
}
```

## Block Widgets

> Block widgets are more complex layouts and should be used only in details body.

Author: Block widgets are not meant to be used outside of details body, however it's still possible to do so and in some cases might even work quite fine, thus "should" and not "must".

# Display widgets

> Widgets available for the lists and details pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Display widgets are used in the lists and details pages.
```

## Inline widgets

Inline widgets are used for simple values and are usable in lists, details headers, and details bodies.

### Text

Text widgets render values as a simple text. This is the default behavior for all scalar values.

#### Example

```json
{
  "path": "spec.label",
  "widget": "Text"
}
```

### Badge

Badge widgets render texts as a status badge, using a set of predefined rules to assign colors.

The following values are automatically handled:

> - rendered as an information: initial, pending, available, released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- rendered as an information: `initial`, `pending`, `available`, `released`.
```

> - rendered as a success: ready, bound, running, success, succeeded, ok.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- rendered as a success: `ready`, `bound`, `running`, `success`, `succeeded`, `ok`.
```

> - rendered as a warning: unknown, warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- rendered as a warning: `unknown`, `warning`.
```

> - rendered as an error: error, failure, invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- rendered as an error: `error`, `failure`, `invalid`.
```

#### Example

```json
{
  "path": "status.value",
  "widget": "Badge"
}
```

## Block widgets

Block widgets are more complex layouts and should be used only in details body.

### Plain

Plain widgets render all contents of an object or list sequentially without any decorations. This is the default behavior for all objects and arrays.

### Panel

Panel widgets render an object as a separate panel with it's own title (based on it's `path` or `name`).

#### Example

```json
{
  "name": "details",
  "widget": "Panel",
  "children": [{ "path": "spec.value" }, { "path": "spec.other-value" }]
}
```

### Columns

> Columns widgets render the child widgets in two columns.

Reviewer: `child` or `children`? I think it's a reference to a parameter. If so, please put it in the brackets``

#### Example

```json
{
  "name": "columns.container",
  "widget": "Columns",
  "children": [
    {
      "name": "columns.left",
      "widget": "Panel"
    },
    {
      "name": "columns.right",
      "widget": "Panel"
    }
  ]
}
```

### CodeViewer

CodeViewer widgets display values using the code highlight.

#### Widget-specific parameters

- **language** - language used for the code highlighting.

#### Example

```json
{
  "path": "spec.json-data",
  "widget": "CodeViewer",
  "language": "json"
}
```

### Table

> Table widgets display array data as rows of a table instead of free-standing components. The `children` parameter defines the column renderers to use. Similar to the `list` section of the config map, only inline widgets should be used as children.

Reviewer: Please remember to update the Table widgets defintion

> Table widgets display array data as rows of a table instead of free-standing components. The `children` parameter defines the column renderers to use. Similar to the `list` section of the config map, only inline widgets should be used as children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table widgets display array data as rows of a table instead of free-standing components. The `children` parameter defines the column renderers to use. Similar to the `list` section of the Config Map, only inline widgets should be used as children.
```
